# Gastown Gang Pasta Dinner 2018-07-03

## Links

* **Recording**: n/a
* **GitHub Issue**: https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/10
* **Prior Minutes Google Doc**: n/a

## Invited
* @Mariatta
* @Qard
* @expede
* @chowdhurian
* @daffl
* @caffodian

## Present
* @Mariatta - Mariatta
* @Qard - Stephen
* @expede - Brooke
* @chowdhurian - Manil
* @daffl - David
* @caffodian - Alex

## Agenda

### From issues labelled `agenda`.

* Document the benefits of a non-profit org to meetups [#6](https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/6)

* Gastown Gang can curate a public calendar of meetups [#7](https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/7)

* requirements for participation [#11](https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/11)

### Proposed at the meeting

* Bank account structure needs to be resolved 

* We need governance

* The org name may need a change

* We need a better channel for communication

* How will sponsorships work

* Propose directorship to meetup representatives to give equal access to resources and have balanced responsibilities

## Notes

### Document the benefits of a non-profit org to meetups [#6](https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/6)
* Insurance for the org, that will extend to the meetups. The meetups right now are directly liable through the organizers for anything that happens.
* Getting the non-profit discount using a society number
* Bank accounts for putting money into +
* It’s also work. Have to file paperwork.
* Venue coordination and sharing +++
* Finding speakers
* Long-term stability of groups by having a single point of entry for new meetup organizers to find something they love +
* Aggregated experience written down in Handbook of Vancouver meetup organizers +
* TODO: Starting implementing a way to share and coordinate venues. It will be very helpful to have private repos for venue directory.

### Gastown Gang can curate a public calendar of meetups [#7](https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/7)
* Related to #11
* TABLED

### requirements for participation [#11](https://github.com/gastowngang/gastowngang.github.io/issues/11)
* Have a meetup’s current director nominate a successor
* Term limits to help keep people’s commitment sufficient, or help remove people who aren’t giving constructive effort
* Can a new meetup join the group without being a formal part of the organization?
* How can a new meetup contribute to the overall health of the community organization?
* Which type of meetups can join? Tech in general. Design, UX, code.
* It should not be our responsibility to chase them down. But we do want to support with intent.
* All meetups should be allowed to make use of contributor resources. Such as the Handbook. Maybe larger, meetups with an existing non-profit support network will not be interested. We’ll answer that question when it arises.

### Bank accounts structure needs to be resolved 
* We used to use the access the bank account of another org. But we lost access because we relied on a small number of people for access.
* Separate bank accounts or one large one
* All directors get access. But do they need others to sign off on transactions?
* We will think about how to handle tickets when the need arises.

### We need governance
* Go over borrowed Node.js Governance doc. Can iterate on after the meeting.
* Go over borrowed Node.js Charter. Can iterate on after the meeting.
* Rules need to be in place for how the processes of onboarding and offboarding happen.
* Rules need to be made around the personal liability of directors, because insurance may not cover that
* Ask an expert about edge cases, if we have unusual cases
* TODO: Finish up the website. Maybe a good student project. Ping Rose.
* TODO: make a meta issue with all the todos

### The org name may need a change
* Something with gang in it may not be good for sponsors. Same with hacker.
* TODO: generate a list of names and see if we can make progress.

### We need a better channel for communication
* Considered the forum, YVRDev and Slack.
* Decided to rename Code & Coffee slack, pending existing org go ahead.
* TODO: Ping the Code & Coffee org to check. !important

### How will sponsorships work
* Overall, there is a benefit to sharing the funds across meetups.
* If meetups are responsible for their own finances, then they don’t have to run it past other meetups.
* A lot of the times, a company is interested in a specific meetup. They can be offered incentives to donate an extra amount of money to support organization-wide efforts.

### Propose directorship to meetup representatives to give equal access to resources and have balanced responsibilities
* Talk to Small Business BC about starting a society
* Retain lawyer if necessary
* Having an informal group of organizers VS having a committed group of directors: we all do this in our free time, and when life happens we have priorities that draw us away. A formal commitment makes it more likely that we will see benefits from being part of a larger support network, and also gives us an opportunity for relying on others.
* TODO: Put together the paperwork

